docs/users_guide/9.4.1-notes.rst, before:

.. _release-9-4-1:

Version 9.4.1
==============

Compiler
~~~~~~~~

- New :ghc-flag:`-Wredundant-strictness-flags` that checks for strictness flags
  (``!``) applied to unlifted types, which are always strict.

- A new type of plugin: defaulting plugins. These plugins can propose
  defaults for ambiguous variables that would otherwise cause errors
  just like the built-in defaulting mechanism.

- The way GHC checks for representation polymorphism has been overhauled:
  all the checks are now done during typechecking. The error messages
  now contain more detailed information about the specific check that was performed.

``base`` library
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``GHC.Exts.magicDict`` has been renamed to ``withDict`` and given a more
  specific type: ::

        withDict :: forall {rr :: RuntimeRep} st dt (r :: TYPE rr). st -> (dt => r) -> r

  Unlike ``magicDict``, ``withDict`` can be used without defining an
  intermediate data type. For example, the ``withTypeable`` function from the
  ``Data.Typeable`` module can now be defined as: ::

        withTypeable :: forall k (a :: k) rep (r :: TYPE rep). ()
                     => TypeRep a -> (Typeable a => r) -> r
        withTypeable rep k = withDict @(TypeRep a) @(Typeable a) rep k

  Note that the explicit type applications are required, as the call to
  ``withDict`` would be ambiguous otherwise.

``ghc-prim`` library
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``GHC.Exts.mkWeak#``, ``GHC.Exts.mkWeakNoFinalizer#``, ``GHC.Exts.touch#``
  and ``GHC.Exts.keepAlive#`` are now levity-polymorphic instead of
  representation-polymorphic. For instance: ::

        mkWeakNoFinalizer#
          :: forall {l :: Levity} (a :: TYPE (BoxedRep l)) (b :: Type)
          .  a -> b -> State# RealWorld -> (# State# RealWorld, Weak# b #)

  That is, the type signature now quantifies over a variable of type ``GHC.Exts.Levity``
  instead of ``GHC.Exts.RuntimeRep``. In addition, this variable is now inferred,
  instead of specified, meaning that it is no longer eligible for visible type application.

- The ``GHC.Exts.RuntimeRep`` parameter to ``GHC.Exts.raise#`` is now inferred: ::

        raise# :: forall (a :: Type) {r :: RuntimeRep} (b :: TYPE r). a -> b

- ``GHC.Exts.reallyUnsafePtrEquality#`` has been made more general, as it is now
  both levity-polymorphic and heterogeneous: ::

        reallyUnsafePtrEquality#
          :: forall {l :: Levity} (a :: TYPE (BoxedRep l))
                    {k :: Levity} (b :: TYPE (BoxedRep k))
          . a -> b -> Int#

  This means that ``GHC.Exts.reallyUnsafePtrEquality#`` can be used
  on primitive arrays such as ``GHC.Exts.Array#`` and ``GHC.Exts.ByteArray#``.
  It can also be used on values of different types, without needing to call
  ``GHC.Exts.unsafeCoerce#``.

- Added ``GHC.Exts.reallyUnsafePtrEquality`` which recovers the
  previous behaviour of ``GHC.Exts.reallyUnsafePtrEquality#``: ::

        reallyUnsafePtrEquality :: forall (a :: Type). a -> a -> Int#

- Added ``GHC.Exts.sameArray#``, ``GHC.Exts.sameSmallArray#``,
  ``GHC.Exts.sameByteArray#`` and ``GHC.Exts.sameArrayArray#``: ::

        sameArray# :: Array# a -> Array# a -> Int#
        sameSmallArray# :: SmallArray# a -> SmallArray# a -> Int#
        sameByteArray# :: ByteArray# -> ByteArray# -> Int#
        sameArrayArray# :: ArrayArray# -> ArrayArray# -> Int#

``ghc`` library
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- A new ``GHC.Hs.Syn.Type`` module has been introduced which defines functions
  for computing the ``Type`` of an ``HsExpr GhcTc`` in a pure fashion.
  The ``hsLitType`` and ``hsPatType`` functions that previously lived in
  ``GHC.Tc.Utils.Zonk`` have been moved to this module.
- A ``Typeable`` constraint has been added to ``fromStaticPtr`` in the
  class ``GHC.StaticPtr.IsStatic``. GHC automatically wraps each use of
  the ``static`` keyword with ``fromStaticPtr``. Because ``static`` requires
  its argument to be an instance of ``Typeable``, ``fromStaticPtr`` can
  safely carry this constraint as well.

Commit message:

Kill derived constraints
Previously, GHC had three flavours of constraint:
Wanted, Given, and Derived. This removes Derived constraints.

Though serving a number of purposes, the most important role
of Derived constraints was to enable better error messages.
This job has been taken over by the new RewriterSets, as explained
in Note [Wanteds rewrite wanteds] in GHC.Tc.Types.Constraint.

Other knock-on effects:
 - Various new Notes as I learned about under-described bits of GHC

 - A reshuffling around the AST for implicit-parameter bindings,
   with better integration with TTG.

 - Various improvements around fundeps. These were caused by the
   fact that, previously, fundep constraints were all Derived,
   and Derived constraints would get dropped. Thus, an unsolved
   Derived didn't stop compilation. Without Derived, this is no
   longer possible, and so we have to be considerably more careful
   around fundeps.

 - A nice little refactoring in GHC.Tc.Errors to center the work
   on a new datatype called ErrorItem. Constraints are converted
   into ErrorItems at the start of processing, and this allows for
   a little preprocessing before the main classification.

docs/users_guide/9.4.1-notes.rst, after:

.. _release-9-4-1:

Version 9.4.1
==============

Language
~~~~~~~~

- A small change has been made to the way GHC infers types for definitions
  with no type signature: GHC will no longer generalize a function over
  a type variable determined by a functional dependency. For example::

    class C a b | a -> b where
      op :: a -> b -> ()
    f x = op True x

  Previously, GHC inferred ``f :: C Bool b => b -> ()``. However, the functional
  dependency says that only one type could ever be used for ``b``: this function
  is hardly valid "for all" ``b``\ s. With the change, GHC will reject, looking
  for the (non-existent) instance for ``C Bool b``.

  If you want to retain the old behavior, add a (backward-compatible) type signature,
  explicitly requesting this unusual quantification.

Compiler
~~~~~~~~

- New :ghc-flag:`-Wredundant-strictness-flags` that checks for strictness flags
  (``!``) applied to unlifted types, which are always strict.

- A new type of plugin: defaulting plugins. These plugins can propose
  defaults for ambiguous variables that would otherwise cause errors
  just like the built-in defaulting mechanism.

- The way GHC checks for representation polymorphism has been overhauled:
  all the checks are now done during typechecking. The error messages
  now contain more detailed information about the specific check that was performed.

``base`` library
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``GHC.Exts.magicDict`` has been renamed to ``withDict`` and given a more
  specific type: ::

        withDict :: forall {rr :: RuntimeRep} st dt (r :: TYPE rr). st -> (dt => r) -> r

  Unlike ``magicDict``, ``withDict`` can be used without defining an
  intermediate data type. For example, the ``withTypeable`` function from the
  ``Data.Typeable`` module can now be defined as: ::

        withTypeable :: forall k (a :: k) rep (r :: TYPE rep). ()
                     => TypeRep a -> (Typeable a => r) -> r
        withTypeable rep k = withDict @(TypeRep a) @(Typeable a) rep k

  Note that the explicit type applications are required, as the call to
  ``withDict`` would be ambiguous otherwise.

``ghc-prim`` library
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``GHC.Exts.mkWeak#``, ``GHC.Exts.mkWeakNoFinalizer#``, ``GHC.Exts.touch#``
  and ``GHC.Exts.keepAlive#`` are now levity-polymorphic instead of
  representation-polymorphic. For instance: ::

        mkWeakNoFinalizer#
          :: forall {l :: Levity} (a :: TYPE (BoxedRep l)) (b :: Type)
          .  a -> b -> State# RealWorld -> (# State# RealWorld, Weak# b #)

  That is, the type signature now quantifies over a variable of type ``GHC.Exts.Levity``
  instead of ``GHC.Exts.RuntimeRep``. In addition, this variable is now inferred,
  instead of specified, meaning that it is no longer eligible for visible type application.

- The ``GHC.Exts.RuntimeRep`` parameter to ``GHC.Exts.raise#`` is now inferred: ::

        raise# :: forall (a :: Type) {r :: RuntimeRep} (b :: TYPE r). a -> b

- ``GHC.Exts.reallyUnsafePtrEquality#`` has been made more general, as it is now
  both levity-polymorphic and heterogeneous: ::

        reallyUnsafePtrEquality#
          :: forall {l :: Levity} (a :: TYPE (BoxedRep l))
                    {k :: Levity} (b :: TYPE (BoxedRep k))
          . a -> b -> Int#

  This means that ``GHC.Exts.reallyUnsafePtrEquality#`` can be used
  on primitive arrays such as ``GHC.Exts.Array#`` and ``GHC.Exts.ByteArray#``.
  It can also be used on values of different types, without needing to call
  ``GHC.Exts.unsafeCoerce#``.

- Added ``GHC.Exts.reallyUnsafePtrEquality`` which recovers the
  previous behaviour of ``GHC.Exts.reallyUnsafePtrEquality#``: ::

        reallyUnsafePtrEquality :: forall (a :: Type). a -> a -> Int#

- Added ``GHC.Exts.sameArray#``, ``GHC.Exts.sameSmallArray#``,
  ``GHC.Exts.sameByteArray#`` and ``GHC.Exts.sameArrayArray#``: ::

        sameArray# :: Array# a -> Array# a -> Int#
        sameSmallArray# :: SmallArray# a -> SmallArray# a -> Int#
        sameByteArray# :: ByteArray# -> ByteArray# -> Int#
        sameArrayArray# :: ArrayArray# -> ArrayArray# -> Int#

``ghc`` library
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- A new ``GHC.Hs.Syn.Type`` module has been introduced which defines functions
  for computing the ``Type`` of an ``HsExpr GhcTc`` in a pure fashion.
  The ``hsLitType`` and ``hsPatType`` functions that previously lived in
  ``GHC.Tc.Utils.Zonk`` have been moved to this module.
- A ``Typeable`` constraint has been added to ``fromStaticPtr`` in the
  class ``GHC.StaticPtr.IsStatic``. GHC automatically wraps each use of
  the ``static`` keyword with ``fromStaticPtr``. Because ``static`` requires
  its argument to be an instance of ``Typeable``, ``fromStaticPtr`` can
  safely carry this constraint as well.
